networks
========

Generative models and ABC-SMC framework for biological networks

Files:

- orca.so/libcorca.so: Cython/C++ libraries to count orbits (method from Hočevar, Demšar. Bioinformatics. 2014;30(4):559-65.)

- modelling_functions.py: Graph generative models and other utilities

- loadFunctions.py: Functions necessary for performing ABC-SMC

- abcsmc.py: script to submit ABC-SMC jobs

Directories:

- orca: C++ and Cython code for graphlet counting. I would recommend doing as much as possible to avoid recompiling... Or even going inside this directory. It can be frustrating

- plotting: Utilities for plotting posterior densities as approximised by the algorithm

GUIDELINES:
===========

- If you want to perform ABC-SMC on networks:

You must have a generative model as a python function that takes in an array of parameter values as input and returns a networkX graph object.
First edit the abcsmc_graphs function in loadFunctions.py to call your function.
Then you can simply run abcsmc.py with a the required and optional arguments (python abcsmc.py to see them).

Liepe et al., Bioinformatics. 2010 Jul 15;26(14):1797-9. For details on the meaning of different options.

Toni et al., J R Soc Interface. 2009 Feb 6;6(31):187-202. To see how the algorithm works.


- If you want to run the generative DD model or versions of it:

All required functions are in modelling_functions.py

The current implementation supports traditional DD, DDA, Domain-based attachment and de novo superfamily generation (all coded in the same function, dd_model).

To turn the different options on and off provide the function with boolean argument for each option: dda,domain,loops,denovoDomain.

A seed must be provided to the function, generated by create_seed. The seed can be an existing graph or None, in which case a ring of size ringSize is created.

The parameters of the model are all entered as an array, in the following order: [pLoss,pGain,pNewSuperfamily,pParentChild]. Only applicable parameters should be provided.

The desired number of nodes must be specified. The graph will be grown until that number of non-orphan nodes (or nodes that are only self-connected) is reached.

- If you want to plot ABC-SMC results:

Run pickle2table.py on your pickle output from abcsmc.py

Edit the R script to include your file names, parameter names and ranges.


CURRENT PROBLEMS:
================

1. Unidentified small memory leak in the graphlet counting code. When running ABC-SMC, since many iterations of the code are performed, memory usage goes higher and higher.

Since the results are saved after each population, if memory usage becomes too high I recommend ending a simulation after a population is cleared and restarting it (which would bring the memory usage back to low levels).

Can probably be fixed though (good luck...).

2. Orbit counting can take a very long time (and even freeze) if the graph has a very large number of edges.
